over the past several years choppers
have made a big comeback and one of the
companies responsible for this popular
revival is vengeance motorcycles
American thunders field correspondent
Steve Knapp has one of their newest oh
five models and is ready to roll
thanks for sure you know every time you
go on a motorcycle ride you want to make
sure your bike is set up so that you
don't have any problems once you get
underway and the first place to begin is
with tire pressure every time you get on
that bike you want to make sure these
things are right I'll deal with any
manufacturer specifications and a lot of
guys on chopper type lotus-like you like
to run their pressures a little bit low
the risk of that is 1/4 the tire
manufacturers you build up a lot of heat
the tire could be laminate you'll have
the tread rolling over onto the sidewall
make the wouldn't see problems that way
please make sure you check your tire
pressures before you go and land up to
the light number check these right now
all right once you got the tire
pressures right you wanna make sure all
the controls fit you now if you ride the
bike all the time probably that's not
going to be a problem but if you're
planning on trade law for the friend
before you guys hit the road man get the
tools out and adjust anything to fit
your body so you're not reaching or
something when you really needed let's
go put that's right now
we've done is we've adjusted the fifth
peg so I've got the right amount of
throw between my foot the idea is you
want to make sure this is right every
time before you ride I'll do the only
person who rides the motorcycle
obviously once you set it up it's going
to be right but checking different pairs
of boots may affect the way the bike
fits you and your foot fits around it
you want to have to be reaching around
and be at all uncomfortable when you
just should be relaxed and just
concentrating on riding not trying to
move your leg legs and feet around the
shift lever yeah you know I could still
come looks a little bit more because the
angle of the boot right here
if I get my foot under there I can get
it I do like a ballerina toe point to
get underneath it so we'll do now is I'm
shortening the throw of the shift arm by
making that shorter and it grabs the
levers if it's going to pull the lever
farther up and towards me getting more
space behind a lever for me to put my
foot so that makes it will make it more
comfortable I don't have to point my
toes so hard to get down behind the ship
there and pull it back towards me sort
of things want to make sure to set up
like before right that's a good fit
right there cruising shifting down
shifting pavarotti do that
there's a relationship between how the
engine is tuned pipe length pipe
diameter exhaust port and so every bike
has its own little unique tone to it
this one's when you come when you're in
gear and you're rolling off the gas it
has this nice little pop to kind of back
pressure sound which I really like
design challenge
like like this you to plan ahead because
it's got a longer linking distance since
they say a standard type Cruiser there's
no matter what bike riding you wanna get
good the only way to do that is to
practice find yourself with a nice empty
road for the partners life so plenty of
run up and then add five miles an hour
starting like jitters fifty miles an
hour
my bike is bringing that motorcycle to
save
wait Scott so used to doing it kicks
into the burgers you know the bike like
this
mostly rear brake be a little bit of
front brake this long fine if I just
grab a handful an emergency stop what's
gonna happen is that flight times gonna
touch and it's gonna pitch me over so
it's why I initiate all my braking with
the rear tire and just want to feel the
threshold like it's about to lock up
nicely to add all the foot brake
it was so long corners like this try to
steer the pipe like with your left hand
so that all your right hand has to do is
run the throttle otherwise what ends up
happening is you're trying the throttle
and steer and hold on at the same time
with the right and hit hand which is
natural and then it becomes what's
what's choppier up up so smooth much
harder to control on the right side here
the limitation is going to be the way to
that second pipe the lower pipe flowing
straight down towards the ground what's
really cool
you notice inside our city my body the
read over I can go to a corner and a
quicker speed and the motorcycle doesn't
have to leave anymore so I'm not gonna
spray park parts but I may be able to
save my own you know what by sliding it
off the seat look your father's to the
point
I guess for me once you've mastered
through these specific techniques that
you need in order to be able to run a
bike like this smoothly and safely
there's no doubt you can get miles of
enjoyment out of it this Benjen fan
she's set up really really nicely for
the factory but it's up to you to learn
how to ride it right